Python - Exceptions

## Why Python programming is awesome

## What’s the difference between errors and exceptions
- An Error is something that most of the time you cannot handle it.
- Exceptions are those which can be handled at the run time.

Syntax error 

```
>>> while True print('Hello world')
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    while True print('Hello world')
                   ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
```


## What are exceptions and how to use them

- An Exception is an error that happens during the execution of a program. Whenever there is an error, Python generates an exception that could be handled. It basically prevents the program from getting crashed.
- 
## When do we need to use exceptions

- Exceptions should be used for situation where a certain method or function could not execute normally. For example, when it encounters broken input or when a resource (e.g. a file) is unavailable. Use exceptions to signal the caller that you faced an error which you are unwilling or unable to handle. 

## How to correctly handle an exception

###### The idea of the try-except block is this:

try: the code with the exception(s) to catch. If an exception is raised, it jumps straight into the except block.

except: this code is only executed if an exception occured in the try block. The except block is required with a try block, even if it contains only the pass statement.

``` 
try:
    # code that you want to protect from exceptions
except <ExceptionType> as ex:
    # code that handle the exception
finally:
    # code that always execute whether the exception occurred or not
else:
    # code that excutes if try execute normally (an except clause must be present)

```


## What’s the purpose of catching exceptions

If an exception occurs, the type of exception is shown. Exceptions needs to be dealt with or the program will crash. To handle exceptions, the try-catch block is used

The try-except block can handle exceptions. This prevents abrupt exits of the program on error. In the example below we purposely raise an exception.

```
try: 
    1 / 0
except ZeroDivisionError: 
    print('Divided by zero')

print('Should reach here')


output: 

Divided by zero
Should reach here

```

## How to raise a builtin exception

-  The built-in exceptions can be generated by the interpreter or built-in functions.
- There are several built-in exceptions in Python that are raised when errors occur. These built-in exceptions can be viewed using the local() built-in functions as follows :

```


```
## When do we need to implement a clean-up action after an exception

- Cleanup actions: Before leaving the try statement, “finally” clause is always executed, whether an exception is raised or not. These are clauses which are intended to define clean-up actions that must be executed under all circumstances.

```
try:
    <do something>
except Exception:
    <handle the error>
finally:
    <cleanup>
```
